README.md, before:

# simple_spider
Some simple python spiders for learning.

weibo.py crawl weibo comments and download images.

## Weibo API Templates

- comments hotflow
    - first level
        - https://m.weibo.cn/comments/hotflow?id={mid}&mid={mid}&max_id_type={0|1}  # init url
        - https://m.weibo.cn/comments/hotflow?id={mid}&mid={mid}&max_id={max_id}&max_id_type={0|1}  # next page url
    - second level
        - https://m.weibo.cn/comments/hotFlowChild?cid={cid}&max_id=0&max_id_type={0|1}  # init url
        - https://m.weibo.cn/comments/hotFlowChild?cid={cid}&max_id={max_id}&max_id_type={0|1}  # next page url

- single post with comments  # DEPRECATED
    - NOTE: this api can only crawl 100 pages, First consider using hotflow
    - https://m.weibo.cn/api/comments/show?id={id}&page={page}

- posts for a user
    - https://m.weibo.cn/api/container/getIndex?containerid={oid}&type=uid&value={uid}&page={page}

- user index
    - https://m.weibo.cn/api/container/getIndex?type=uid&value={usr_id}

## How to run
Set `mid` and paste `cookie` and `user_agent` into `weibo_config.py`. And adapt other configurations.

Then run `python weibo.py`

If you get `json.decoder.JSONDecodeError: Expecting value: line 1 column 1 (char 0)` error,
you should login and recopy the cookie, or change account.

Commit message:

change retry counting rule | change way of getting max_id_type
- M: change retry counting rule, try n times when error happens continuously rather than gross.
     e.g. reset try times record to 0 after request successfully.
- M: get the next request max_id_type from previous data response.
- M: move msg_logging(), csv_writing() from weibo class to utils.
- A: add utils.csv_reading() for csv file reading.

README.md, after:

# simple_spider
Some simple python spiders for learning.

weibo.py crawl weibo comments and download images.

## Weibo API Templates
- comments hotflow
    - first level
        - https://m.weibo.cn/comments/hotflow?id={mid}&mid={mid}&max_id_type={0|1}  # init url
        - https://m.weibo.cn/comments/hotflow?id={mid}&mid={mid}&max_id={max_id}&max_id_type={0|1}  # next page url
    - second level
        - https://m.weibo.cn/comments/hotFlowChild?cid={cid}&max_id=0&max_id_type={0|1}  # init url
        - https://m.weibo.cn/comments/hotFlowChild?cid={cid}&max_id={max_id}&max_id_type={0|1}  # next page url

- single post with comments  # DEPRECATED
    - NOTE: this api can only crawl 100 pages, First consider using hotflow
    - https://m.weibo.cn/api/comments/show?id={id}&page={page}

- posts for a user
    - https://m.weibo.cn/api/container/getIndex?containerid={oid}&type=uid&value={uid}&page={page}

- user index
    - https://m.weibo.cn/api/container/getIndex?type=uid&value={usr_id}

## How to run
Set `mid` and paste `cookie` and `user_agent` into `weibo_config.py`. And adapt other configurations.

Then run `python weibo.py`

## Exceptions
- If you get `json.decoder.JSONDecodeError: Expecting value: line 1 column 1 (char 0)` error. This represent too frequent requests.
    - You should set longer time to sleep, or change account and recopy the cookie.

- If you get `KeyError: data` error. This represent response 200 and ok, but returned json data are empty.
    - You can try to refresh weibo page and reentry program.
